---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/detections-logsdb-index-mode-impact.html
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/serverless/current/detections-logsdb-index-mode-impact.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless:
    security: all
products:
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless
---

# Using logsdb index mode with Elastic Security [detections-logsdb-index-mode-impact]

::::{admonition} Requirements
To use the [synthetic `_source`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md#synthetic-source) feature in the {{stack}}, you must have the appropriate subscription. Refer to the subscription page for [Elastic Cloud](https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions/cloud) and [Elastic Stack/self-managed](https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions) for the breakdown of available features and their associated subscription tiers.
::::


This topic explains the impact of using logsdb index mode with {{elastic-sec}} and {{sec-serverless}}. You must have the appropriate subscription to use this feature in {{stack}}. In {{serverless-short}}, logsdb index mode is enabled by default. 

With logsdb index mode, the original `_source` field is not stored in the index but can be reconstructed using [synthetic `_source`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md#synthetic-source).

When the `_source` is reconstructed, [modifications](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md#synthetic-source-modifications) are possible. Therefore, there could be a mismatch between users' expectations and how fields are formatted.

Continue reading to learn how logsdb index mode affects CPU and storage usage and specific {{elastic-sec}} components. 

::::{note}
The following statement applies to {{stack}} users only:

Logsdb index mode is fully supported, and is recommended for all {{elastic-sec}} deployments. Users with existing {{elastic-sec}} deployments are advised to fully understand and accept the documented changes to detection alert documents, runtime fields, and rule actions (refer to the sections below), and ensure that their deployment has sufficient excess hot data tier CPU  capacity to support the logsdb ingest and indexing process. Enabling logsdb index mode without sufficient excess hot data tier CPU capacity may result in data ingestion backups and/or security detection rule timeouts and errors.

::::


## CPU and storage  [logsdb-cpu-storage]

Logsdb index mode significantly reduces storage needs by using slightly more CPU during ingest. After enabling logsdb index mode for your data sources, you may need to adjust cluster sizing in response to the new CPU and storage needs. To learn more about how logsdb index mode optimizes CPU and storage usage, check out [our blog](https://www.elastic.co/search-labs/blog/elasticsearch-logsdb-index-mode).


## Alerts [logsdb-alerts]

When alerts are generated, the `_source` event is copied into the alert to retain the original data. When the logsdb index mode is applied, the `_source` event stored in the alert is reconstructed using synthetic `_source`.

If you’re switching to use logsdb index mode, the `_source` field stored in the alert might look different in certain situations:

* [Arrays can be reconstructed differently or deduplicated](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md#synthetic-source-modifications-leaf-arrays)
* [Field names](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md#synthetic-source-modifications-field-names)
* `geo_point` data fields (refer to [Representation of ranges](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md#synthetic-source-modifications-ranges) and [Reduced precision of `geo_point` values](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md#synthetic-source-precision-loss-for-point-types) for more information)

Alerts generated by the following rule types could be affected:

* Custom query
* Event correlation (non-sequence only)
* Non-aggregate rule types (for example, {{esql}} rules that use non-aggregating queries)

Alerts that are generated by threshold, {{ml}}, and event correlation sequence rules are not affected since they do not contain copies of the original source.


## Rule actions [logsdb-rule-actions]

While we do not recommend using `_source` for actions, in cases where the action relies on the `_source`, the same limitations and changes apply.

If you send alert notifications by enabling [actions](/explore-analyze/alerts-cases/alerts.md#rules-actions) to the external systems that have workflows or automations based on fields formatted from the original source, they may be affected. In particular, this can happen when the fields used are arrays of objects.

We recommend checking and adjusting the rule actions using `_source` before switching to logsdb index mode.


## Runtime fields [logsdb-runtime-fields]

Runtime fields that reference `_source` may be affected. Some runtime fields might not work and need to be adjusted. For example, if an event was indexed with the value of `agent.name` in the dot-notation form, it will be returned in the nested form and might not work.

The following is an example of accessing `_source` that works with the logsdb index mode enabled:

```console
"source": """  emit(params._source.agent.name + "_____" + doc['agent.name'].value ); """
"source": """  emit(params._source['agent']['name'] + "_____" + doc['agent.name'].value );  """
"source": """  emit(field('agent.name').get(null) + "_____" + doc['agent.name'].value ); """
"source": """  emit($('agent.name', null) + "_____" + doc['agent.name'].value ); """
```

The following will not work with synthetic source (logsdb index mode enabled):

```console
"source": """  emit(params._source['agent.name'] + "_____" + doc['agent.name'].value );  """
```

Also note that runtime fields with scripts that reference `params._source` may need to be updated. Scripts that currently use dotted field names to access source fields must be converted to use the nested access pattern instead, unless the object being accessed has `subobjects` set to `false`. Fields that are not mapped also need to be accessed in scripts using the nested access pattern (for example, `params._source['foo']['bar']['baz']` or `params._source.foo.bar.baz`, not `params._source['foo.bar.baz']`). To learn more about how synthetic source names fields and changes that you may need to make to your scripts, refer to [Fields named as they are mapped](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/mapping-source-field.md#synthetic-source-modifications-field-names).