---
mapped_urls:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/serverless/current/observability-quickstarts-k8s-logs-metrics.html
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/current/monitor-k8s-logs-metrics-with-elastic-agent.html
---

# Quickstart: Monitor your Kubernetes cluster with {{agent}} [monitor-k8s-logs-metrics-with-elastic-agent]

In this quickstart guide, you’ll learn how to create the Kubernetes resources that are required to monitor your cluster infrastructure.

This new approach requires minimal configuration and provides you with an easy setup to monitor your infrastructure. You no longer need to download, install, or configure the Elastic Agent, everything happens automatically when you run the kubectl command.

The kubectl command installs the standalone Elastic Agent in your Kubernetes cluster, downloads all the Kubernetes resources needed to collect metrics from the cluster, and sends it to Elastic.


## Prerequisites [_prerequisites_2]

::::{tab-set}
:group: stack-serverless

:::{tab-item} Elastic Stack v9
:sync: stack

* An {{es}} cluster for storing and searching your data, and {{kib}} for visualizing and managing your data. This quickstart is available for all Elastic deployment models. To get started quickly, try out our hosted {{ess}} on [{{ecloud}}](https://cloud.elastic.co/registration?page=docs&placement=docs-body).
* A user with the `superuser` [built-in role](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/built-in-roles.md) or the privileges required to onboard data.

    ::::{dropdown} Expand to view required privileges
    * [**Cluster**](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/elasticsearch-privileges.md#privileges-list-cluster): `['monitor', 'manage_own_api_key']`
    * [**Index**](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/elasticsearch-privileges.md#privileges-list-indices): `{ names: ['logs-*-*', 'metrics-*-*'], privileges: ['auto_configure', 'create_doc'] }`
    * [**Kibana**](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/kibana-privileges.md): `{ spaces: ['*'], feature: { fleet: ['all'], fleetv2: ['all'] } }`

    ::::

* A running Kubernetes cluster.
* [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/).

:::

:::{tab-item} Serverless
:sync: serverless

* An {{obs-serverless}} project. To learn more, refer to [Create an Observability project](../../../solutions/observability/get-started/create-an-observability-project.md).
* A user with the **Admin** role or higher—required to onboard system logs and metrics. To learn more, refer to [Assign user roles and privileges](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cloud-organization/user-roles.md#general-assign-user-roles).
* A running Kubernetes cluster.
* [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/).

:::

::::


## Collect your data [_collect_your_data_2]

::::{tab-set}
:group: stack-serverless

:::{tab-item} Elastic Stack v9
:sync: stack

1. In {{kib}}, go to the **Observability** UI and click **Add Data**.
2. Under **What do you want to monitor?** select **Kubernetes**, and then select **Elastic Agent: Logs & Metrics**.

    :::{image} ../../../images/observability-quickstart-k8s-entry-point.png
    :alt: Kubernetes entry point
    :class: screenshot
    :::

3. To install the Elastic Agent on your host, copy and run the install command.

    You will use the kubectl command to download a manifest file, inject user’s API key generated by {{kib}}, and create the Kubernetes resources.

4. Go back to the **Add Observability Data** page.

    There might be a slight delay before data is ingested. When ready, you will see the message **We are monitoring your cluster**.

5. Click **Explore Kubernetes cluster** to navigate to dashboards and explore your data.

:::

:::{tab-item} Serverless
:sync: serverless

1. [Create a new {{obs-serverless}} project](../../../solutions/observability/get-started/create-an-observability-project.md), or open an existing one.
2. In your {{obs-serverless}} project, go to **Add Data**.
3. Under **What do you want to monitor?** select **Kubernetes**, and then select **Elastic Agent: Logs & Metrics**.

    :::{image} ../../../images/serverless-quickstart-k8s-entry-point.png
    :alt: Kubernetes entry point
    :class: screenshot
    :::

4. To install the Elastic Agent on your host, copy and run the install command.

    You will use the kubectl command to download a manifest file, inject user’s API key generated by Kibana, and create the Kubernetes resources.

5. Go back to the **Add Observability Data** page. There might be a slight delay before data is ingested. When ready, you will see the message **We are monitoring your cluster**.
6. Click **Explore Kubernetes cluster** to navigate to dashboards and explore your data.

:::

::::


## Visualize your data [_visualize_your_data_2]

After installation is complete and all relevant data is flowing into Elastic, the **Visualize your data** section allows you to access the Kubernetes Cluster Overview dashboard that can be used to monitor the health of the cluster.

:::{image} ../../../images/observability-quickstart-k8s-overview.png
:alt: Kubernetes overview dashboard
:class: screenshot
:::

Furthermore, you can access other useful prebuilt dashboards for monitoring Kubernetes resources, for example running pods per namespace, as well as the resources they consume, like CPU and memory.

Refer to [Observability overview](../../../solutions/observability/get-started/what-is-elastic-observability.md) for a description of other useful features.