---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/endpoint-protection-rules.html
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/serverless/current/endpoint-protection-rules.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless:
    security: all
products:
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless
---

# Endpoint protection rules [endpoint-protection-rules]

Endpoint protection rules are [prebuilt rules](../detect-and-alert/install-manage-elastic-prebuilt-rules.md) designed to help you manage and respond to alerts generated by {{elastic-endpoint}}, the installed component that performs {{elastic-defend}}'s threat monitoring and prevention. These rules include the Endpoint Security ({{elastic-defend}}) rule as well as additional detection and prevention rules for different {{elastic-defend}} protection features.

::::{important}
To receive {{elastic-endpoint}} alerts, you must install {{agent}} and the {{elastic-defend}} integration  on your hosts (refer to [Install {{elastic-defend}}](../configure-elastic-defend/install-elastic-defend.md)).
::::


When endpoint protection rules are triggered, {{elastic-endpoint}} alerts are displayed as detection alerts in the {{security-app}}. The detection alert name is taken from the {{elastic-endpoint}} alert message and overwrites the prebuilt rule name in the Alerts table. For example, for malware protection, the following {{elastic-endpoint}} alerts are displayed as detection alerts:

* Malware Prevention Alert
* Malware Detection Alert


## Endpoint Security rule [endpoint-sec-rule]

The [Endpoint Security ({{elastic-defend}})](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/elastic_endpoint_security.md) rule automatically creates an alert from all incoming {{elastic-endpoint}} alerts.

::::{note}
When you install Elastic prebuilt rules, the Endpoint Security ({{elastic-defend}}) rule is enabled by default.
::::



## Feature-specific protection rules [feature-protection-rules]

The following endpoint protection rules give you more granular control over how you handle the generated alerts. These rules are tailored for each of {{elastic-defend}}'s endpoint protection features—malware, ransomware, memory threats, and malicious behavior. Enabling these rules allows you to configure more specific actions based on the protection feature and whether the malicious activity was prevented or detected.

* [Behavior - Detected - {{elastic-defend}}](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/elastic_endpoint_security_behavior_detected.md)
* [Behavior - Prevented - {{elastic-defend}}](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/elastic_endpoint_security_behavior_prevented.md)
* [Malicious File - Detected - {{elastic-defend}}](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/execution_elastic_malicious_file_detected.md)
* [Malicious File - Prevented - {{elastic-defend}}](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/execution_elastic_malicious_file_prevented.md)
* [Memory Threat - Detected - {{elastic-defend}}](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/defense_evasion_elastic_memory_threat_detected.md)
* [Memory Threat - Prevented - {{elastic-defend}}](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/defense_evasion_elastic_memory_threat_prevented.md)
* [Ransomware - Detected - {{elastic-defend}}](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/impact_elastic_ransomware_detected.md)
* [Ransomware - Prevented - {{elastic-defend}}](detection-rules://rules/integrations/endpoint/impact_elastic_ransomware_prevented.md)

::::{note}
If you choose to use the feature-specific protection rules, we recommend that you disable the Endpoint Security ({{elastic-defend}}) rule, as using both will result in duplicate alerts.
::::


To use these rules, you need to manually enable them from the **Rules** page in the {{security-app}}. Follow the instructions for [installing and enabling Elastic prebuilt rules](../detect-and-alert/install-manage-elastic-prebuilt-rules.md#load-prebuilt-rules).


## Endpoint security exception handling [_endpoint_security_exception_handling]

All endpoint protection rules share a common exception list called the Endpoint Security Exception List. This ensures that if you switch between using the Endpoint Security ({{elastic-defend}}) rule and the feature-specific protection rules, your existing [{{elastic-endpoint}} exceptions](../detect-and-alert/add-manage-exceptions.md#endpoint-rule-exceptions) continue to apply.
