---
navigation_title: Run {{kib}} in production
applies_to:
  deployment:
    ess: all
    ece: all
    eck: all
    self: all
---

# Run {{kib}} in production

How you deploy {{kib}} largely depends on your use case. If you are the only user, you can run {{kib}} on your local machine and configure it to point to whatever {{es}} instance you want to interact with. Conversely, if you have a large number of heavy {{kib}} users, you might need to load balance across multiple {{kib}} instances that are all connected to the same {{es}} cluster or deployment.

## Scalability

With the introduction of new capabilities such as [{{kib}} Alerting](/explore-analyze/alerts-cases.md) and the [Detection Rules](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert.md) engine, critical components for [Observability](/solutions/observability.md) and [Security](/solutions/security.md) solutions, the scalability factors have evolved significantly.

Now, Kibana’s resource requirements extend beyond user activity. The system must also handle workloads generated by automated processes, such as scheduled alerts, background detection rules, and other periodic tasks. These operations are managed by [{{kib}} Task Manager](./kibana-task-manager-scaling-considerations.md), which is responsible for scheduling, executing, and coordinating all background tasks.

Additionally, the task manager enables distributed coordination across multiple {{kib}} instances, allowing {{kib}} to function as a logical cluster in certain aspects.

::::{important}
* {{kib}} does not support rolling [upgrades](/deploy-manage/upgrade/deployment-or-cluster/kibana.md), and deploying mixed versions of {{kib}} can result in data loss or upgrade failures. Shut down all instances of {{kib}} before performing an upgrade, and ensure all running {{kib}} instances have matching versions.
* While {{kib}} isn’t resource intensive, we still recommend running {{kib}} separate from  your {{es}} data or master nodes.
::::

## Section overview

This section provides guidance on key configurations and optimizations for running {{kib}} in production environments. You’ll learn how to scale, secure, and optimize {{kib}} for high availability and performance, as well as how to manage background tasks and other features effectively.

Topics covered include:

* [High availability and traffic distribution](./kibana-load-balance-traffic.md): For self-managed deployments, learn how to load balance traffic across multiple {{kib}} instances, how to balance traffic to different deployments, and how to distribute {{kib}} traffic across multiple {{es}} instances.

* [Scaling {{kib}} based on traffic](./kibana-traffic-scaling-considerations.md): Learn the quantity of CPU and memory resources needed by {{kib}} to handle expected traffic.

* [Configure {{kib}} memory usage](./kibana-configure-memory.md): Configure {{kib}} memory limit in self-managed deployments.

* [Manage {{kib}} background tasks](./kibana-task-manager-scaling-considerations.md): Learn how {{kib}} runs background tasks like alerting and reporting, and get guidance on scaling and throughput tuning for reliable task execution. Applicable to all deployment types.

* [Optimize {{kib}} alerting performance](./kibana-alerting-production-considerations.md): Learn how {{kib}} runs alerting rules and actions using background tasks, and how to scale alerting by tuning task throughput and circuit breakers. Applicable to all deployment types.

* [{{kib}} reporting production setup](./kibana-reporting-production-considerations.md): Learn how {{kib}} generates reports using a headless version of Chromium, and how to configure your environment securely for production, including sandboxing and OS compatibility.


::::{note}
Not all recommendations in this section apply to every [deployment type](/deploy-manage/deploy.md#choosing-your-deployment-type). Be sure to check the section headers or applicability notes to confirm whether a given configuration is relevant to your environment.
::::


In addition to the guidance provided in this section, other areas of the documentation cover important aspects for running {{kib}} in production, such as:

* [Secure your cluster or deployment](/deploy-manage/security/secure-your-cluster-deployment.md)
* [Authentication and authorization](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth.md)
