API key authentication enables a local cluster to authenticate itself with a remote cluster via a [cross-cluster API key](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-security-create-cross-cluster-api-key). The API key needs to be created by an administrator of the remote cluster. The local cluster is configured to provide this API key on each request to the remote cluster. The remote cluster verifies the API key and grants access, based on the API key’s privileges.

All cross-cluster requests from the local cluster are bound by the API key’s privileges, regardless of local users associated with the requests. For example, if the API key only allows read access to `my-index` on the remote cluster, even a superuser from the local cluster is limited by this constraint. This mechanism enables the remote cluster’s administrator to have full control over who can access what data with cross-cluster search and/or cross-cluster replication. The remote cluster’s administrator can be confident that no access is possible beyond what is explicitly assigned to the API key.

On the local cluster side, not every local user needs to access every piece of data allowed by the API key. An administrator of the local cluster can further configure additional permission constraints on local users so each user only gets access to the necessary remote data. Note it is only possible to further reduce the permissions allowed by the API key for individual local users. It is impossible to increase the permissions to go beyond what is allowed by the API key.

If you run into any issues, refer to [Troubleshooting](/troubleshoot/elasticsearch/remote-clusters.md).
