---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-orchestration.html
applies_to:
  deployment:
    eck: all
products:
  - id: cloud-kubernetes
---

# Nodes orchestration [k8s-orchestration]

This section covers the following topics:

* [NodeSets overview](#k8s-nodesets)
* [Cluster upgrade](#k8s-upgrading)
* [Cluster upgrade patterns](#k8s-upgrade-patterns)
* [StatefulSets orchestration](#k8s-statefulsets)
* [Limitations](#k8s-orchestration-limitations)
* [Advanced control during rolling upgrades](#k8s-advanced-upgrade-control)

## NodeSets overview [k8s-nodesets]

NodeSets are used to specify the topology of the {{es}} cluster. Each NodeSet represents a group of {{es}} nodes that share the same {{es}} configuration and Kubernetes Pod configuration.

::::{tip}
You can use [YAML anchors](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2765878) to declare the configuration change once and reuse it across all the node sets.
::::


```yaml subs=true
apiVersion: elasticsearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1
kind: Elasticsearch
metadata:
  name: quickstart
spec:
  version: {{version.stack}}
  nodeSets:
  - name: master-nodes
    count: 3
    config:
      node.roles: ["master"]
    volumeClaimTemplates:
    - metadata:
        name: elasticsearch-data
      spec:
        accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 10Gi
        storageClassName: standard
  - name: data-nodes
    count: 10
    config:
      node.roles: ["data"]
    volumeClaimTemplates:
    - metadata:
        name: elasticsearch-data
      spec:
        accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 1000Gi
        storageClassName: standard
```

In this example, the {{es}} resource defines two NodeSets:

* `master-nodes` with 10Gi volumes
* `data-nodes` with 1000Gi volumes

The {{es}} cluster is composed of 13 nodes: 3 master nodes and 10 data nodes.


## Upgrading the cluster [k8s-upgrading]

ECK handles smooth upgrades from one cluster specification to another. You can apply a new {{es}} specification at any time. For example, based on the {{es}} specification described in the [NodeSets overview](#k8s-nodesets), you can:

* Add five additional {{es}} data nodes: In `data-nodes` change the value in the `count` field from 10 to 15.
* Increase the memory limit of data nodes to 32Gi: Set a [different resource limit](manage-compute-resources.md) in the existing `data-nodes` NodeSet.
* Replace dedicated master and dedicated data nodes with nodes having both master and data roles: Replace the two existing NodeSets by a single one with a different name and the appropriate {{es}} configuration settings.
* Upgrade {{es}} from version 7.2.0 to 7.3.0: Change the value in the `version` field.

ECK orchestrates NodeSet changes with no downtime and makes sure that:

* Before a node is removed, the relevant data is migrated to other nodes (with some [limitations](#k8s-orchestration-limitations)).
* When a cluster topology changes, these {{es}} settings are adjusted accordingly:

    * `discovery.seed_hosts`
    * `cluster.initial_master_nodes`
    * `discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes`
    * `_cluster/voting_config_exclusions`

* Rolling upgrades are performed safely with existing PersistentVolumes reused where possible.


## StatefulSets orchestration [k8s-statefulsets]

Behind the scenes, ECK translates each NodeSet specified in the {{es}} resource into a [StatefulSet in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/). The NodeSet specification is based on the StatefulSet specification:

* `count` corresponds to the number of replicas in the StatefulSet. A StatefulSet replica is a Pod — which corresponds to an {{es}} node.
* `podTemplate` can be used to [customize some aspects of the {{es}} Pods](customize-pods.md) created by the underlying StatefulSet.
* The StatefulSet name is derived from the {{es}} resource name and the NodeSet name. Each Pod in the StatefulSet gets a name generated by suffixing the pod ordinal to the StatefulSet name. {{es}} nodes have the same name as the Pod they are running on.

The actual Pod creation is handled by the StatefulSet controller in Kubernetes. ECK relies on the [OnDelete StatefulSet update strategy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/#update-strategies) since it needs full control over when and how Pods get upgraded to a new revision.

When a Pod is removed and recreated (maybe with a newer revision), the StatefulSet controller makes sure that the PersistentVolumes attached to the original Pod are then attached to the new Pod.


## Cluster upgrade patterns [k8s-upgrade-patterns]

Depending on how the NodeSets are updated, ECK handles the Kubernetes resource reconciliation in various ways.

* A new NodeSet is added to the {{es}} resource.

    ECK creates the corresponding StatefulSet. It also sets up [Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and [ConfigMaps](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/) to hold the TLS certificates and {{es}} configuration files.

* The node count of an existing NodeSet is increased.

    ECK increases the replicas of the corresponding StatefulSet.

* The node count of an existing NodeSet is decreased.

    ECK migrates data away from the {{es}} nodes due to be removed and then decreases the replicas of the corresponding StatefulSet. [PersistentVolumeClaims](volume-claim-templates.md) belonging to the removed nodes are automatically removed as well.

* An existing NodeSet is removed.

    ECK migrates data away from the {{es}} nodes in the NodeSet and removes the underlying StatefulSet.

* The specification of an existing NodeSet is updated. For example, the {{es}} configuration, or the PodTemplate resources requirements.

    ECK performs a rolling upgrade of the corresponding {{es}} nodes. It follows the [{{es}} rolling upgrade best practices](/deploy-manage/upgrade/deployment-or-cluster.md) to update the underlying Pods while maintaining the availability of the {{es}} cluster where possible. In most cases, the process simply involves restarting {{es}} nodes one-by-one. Note that some cluster topologies may be impossible to deploy without making the cluster unavailable (check [Limitations](#k8s-orchestration-limitations) ).

* An existing NodeSet is renamed.

    ECK creates a new NodeSet with the new name, migrates data away from the old NodeSet, and then removes it. During this process the {{es}} cluster could temporarily have more nodes than normal. The {{es}} [update strategy](update-strategy.md) controls how many nodes can exist above or below the target node count during the upgrade.


In all these cases, ECK handles StatefulSet operations according to the {{es}} orchestration best practices by adjusting the following orchestration settings:

* `discovery.seed_hosts`
* `cluster.initial_master_nodes`
* `discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes`
* `_cluster/voting_config_exclusions`


## Limitations [k8s-orchestration-limitations]

Due to relying on Kubernetes primitives such as StatefulSets, the ECK orchestration process has some inherent limitations.

* Cluster availability during rolling upgrades is not guaranteed for the following cases:

    * Single-node clusters
    * Clusters containing indices with no replicas


If an {{es}} node holds the only copy of a shard, this shard becomes unavailable while the node is upgraded. To ensure [high availability](/deploy-manage/production-guidance/availability-and-resilience.md) it is recommended to configure clusters with three master nodes, more than one node per [data tier](/manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) and at least one replica per index.

* {{es}} Pods may stay `Pending` during a rolling upgrade if the Kubernetes scheduler cannot re-schedule them back. This is especially important when using local PersistentVolumes. If the Kubernetes node bound to a local PersistentVolume does not have enough capacity to host an upgraded Pod which was temporarily removed, that Pod will stay `Pending`.
* Rolling upgrades can only make progress if the {{es}} cluster health is green. There are exceptions to this rule if the cluster health is yellow and if the following conditions are satisfied:

    * A cluster version upgrade is in progress and some Pods are not up to date.
    * There are no initializing or relocating shards.


If these conditions are met, then ECK can delete a Pod for upgrade even if the cluster health is yellow, as long as the Pod is not holding the last available replica of a shard.

The health of the cluster is deliberately ignored in the following cases:

* If all the {{es}} nodes of a NodeSet are unavailable, probably caused by a misconfiguration, the operator ignores the cluster health and upgrades nodes of the NodeSet.
* If an {{es}} node to upgrade is not healthy, and not part of the {{es}} cluster, the operator ignores the cluster health and upgrades the {{es}} node.

    * {{es}} versions cannot be downgraded. For example, it is impossible to downgrade an existing cluster from version 7.3.0 to 7.2.0. This is not supported by {{es}}.


Advanced users may force an upgrade by manually deleting Pods themselves. The deleted Pods are automatically recreated at the latest revision.

Operations that reduce the number of nodes in the cluster cannot make progress without user intervention, if the {{es}} index replica settings are incompatible with the intended downscale. Specifically, if the {{es}} index settings demand a higher number of shard copies than data nodes in the cluster after the downscale operation, ECK cannot migrate the data away from the node about to be removed. You can address this in the following ways:

* Adjust the {{es}} [index settings](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-indices-put-settings) to a number of replicas that allow the desired node removal.
* Use [`auto_expand_replicas`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/index-modules.md) to automatically adjust the replicas to the number of data nodes in the cluster.

## Advanced control during rolling upgrades [k8s-advanced-upgrade-control]

During {{es}} rolling upgrades, ECK follows a set of rules (also known as predicates) to ensure the upgrade process is safe and does not put the cluster at risk. For example, one of these predicates ensures that only a single master node is upgraded at a time, while another prevents nodes from being restarted if the cluster is in a red state.

These predicates can be selectively disabled for certain scenarios where the ECK operator will not proceed with an {{es}} cluster upgrade because it deems it to be "unsafe".

For a complete list of available predicates, their meaning, and example usage, refer to [ECK upgrade predicates](cloud-on-k8s://reference/upgrade-predicates.md).

::::{warning}
* Selectively disabling the predicates is extremely risky, and carry a high chance of either data loss, or causing a cluster to become completely unavailable. Use them only if you are sure that you are not causing permanent damage to an {{es}} cluster.
* These predicates might change in the future. We will be adding, removing, and renaming these over time, so be careful in adding these to any automation.
* Also, make sure you remove them after use by running `kublectl annotate elasticsearch.elasticsearch.k8s.elastic.co/elasticsearch-sample eck.k8s.elastic.co/disable-upgrade-predicates-`
::::
