---
navigation_title: Server logs
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/kibana-troubleshooting-kibana-server-logs.html
applies_to:
  deployment:
    ess: all
    ece: all
    self: all
    eck: all
products:
  - id: kibana
---

# Using Kibana server logs [kibana-troubleshooting-kibana-server-logs]

{{kib}} Logs help you see what's going on in your application and debug performance issues. Navigating through a large number of generated logs can be overwhelming, and following are some techniques that you can use to optimize the process.

Start by defining a problem area that you are interested in. For example, you might be interested in seeing how a particular {{kib}} Plugin is performing, so no need to gather logs for all of {{kib}}. Or you might want to focus on a particular feature, such as requests from the {{kib}} server to the {{es}} server. Depending on your needs, you can configure {{kib}} to generate logs for a specific feature.

```yaml
logging:
  appenders:
    file:
      type: file
      fileName: ./kibana.log
      layout:
        type: json

## gather all the Kibana logs into a file
logging.root:
    appenders: [file]
    level: all

## or gather a subset of the logs
logging.loggers:
  ### responses to an HTTP request
  - name: http.server.response
    level: debug
    appenders: [file]
  ### result of a query to the Elasticsearch server
  - name: elasticsearch.query
    level: debug
    appenders: [file]
  ### logs generated by my plugin
  - name: plugins.myPlugin
    level: debug
    appenders: [file]
```

::::{warning}
Kibana’s `file` appender is configured to produce logs in [ECS JSON](ecs://reference/index.md) format. It’s the only format that includes the meta information necessary for [log correlation](apm-agent-nodejs://reference/logs.md) out-of-the-box.
::::


The next step is to define what [observability tools](https://www.elastic.co/observability) are available. For a better experience, set up an [Observability integration](/solutions/observability/logs/stream-application-logs.md) provided by Elastic to debug your application with the [APM UI.](#debugging-logs-apm-ui) To debug something quickly without setting up additional tooling, you can work with [the plain {{kib}} logs.](#plain-kibana-logs)

## APM UI [debugging-logs-apm-ui]

**Prerequisites** {{kib}} logs are configured to be in [ECS JSON](ecs://reference/index.md) format to include tracing identifiers.

To debug {{kib}} with the APM UI, you must set up the APM infrastructure. You can find instructions for the setup process [on the Observability integrations page](/solutions/observability/logs/stream-application-logs.md).

Once you set up the APM infrastructure, you can enable the APM agent and put {{kib}} under load to collect APM events. To analyze the collected metrics and logs, use the APM UI as demonstrated [in the docs](/solutions/observability/apm/transactions-ui.md#transaction-trace-sample).


## Plain {{kib}} logs [plain-kibana-logs]

**Prerequisites** {{kib}} logs are configured to be in [ECS JSON](ecs://reference/index.md) format to include tracing identifiers.

Open {{kib}} Logs and search for an operation you are interested in. For example, suppose you want to investigate the response times for queries to the `/internal/telemetry/clusters/_stats` {{kib}} endpoint. Open Kibana Logs and search for the HTTP server response for the endpoint. It looks similar to the following (some fields are omitted for brevity).

```json
{
  "message":"POST /internal/telemetry/clusters/_stats 200 1014ms - 43.2KB",
  "log":{"level":"DEBUG","logger":"http.server.response"},
  "trace":{"id":"9b99131a6f66587971ef085ef97dfd07"},
  "transaction":{"id":"d0c5bbf14f5febca"}
}
```

You are interested in the [trace.id](ecs://reference/ecs-tracing.md#field-trace-id) field, which is a unique identifier of a trace. The `trace.id` provides a way to group multiple events, like transactions, which belong together. You can search for `"trace":{"id":"9b99131a6f66587971ef085ef97dfd07"}` to get all the logs that belong to the same trace. This enables you to see how many {{es}} requests were triggered during the `9b99131a6f66587971ef085ef97dfd07` trace, what they looked like, what {{es}} endpoints were hit, and so on.


